                                                   S ELF -E VOLVING H ARNESS ON M ULTIPLE TASKS WITH THE
                                                                 AGENT AS I TS OWN O PTIMIZER

                                                                                                   Qiankai Xu1


                                                                                                  A BSTRACT
                                                       A harness is the code around a language-model agent that organizes prompts, calls tools, manages




arXiv:2609.38372v1 [cs.AI] 29 Sep 2026
                                                       context, and controls execution. As models grow stronger, recent work has begun to let agents
                                                       improve their own harnesses, a line of work known as self-evolving harnesses. In most existing
                                                       methods, a separate proposer running on a human-designed harness modifies the solver’s harness, and
                                                       a separate harness is evolved for each benchmark. Real-world tasks come from many domains, so
                                                       both the evolution and the evaluation of a harness should cover a diverse range of tasks. We propose
                                                       a framework close to recursive self-improvement: the same frozen model, on the same version of
                                                       the harness, first solves tasks as the solver and then, as the proposer, reads the complete run records
                                                       and directly edits the harness that runs it. Each evolution batch draws tasks from five benchmarks
                                                       in different domains. To measure generalization, training and held-out tasks are strictly separated,
                                                       and we additionally evaluate on five out-of-distribution benchmarks never used during evolution. We
                                                       frame the evolution process as deep-learning training with two stages, multi-task pretraining and
                                                       continual training. Starting from a 49-line seed harness, the harness obtained at the end of the first
                                                       stage improves the average score by 4.48 points on the in-distribution benchmarks and by 12.64
                                                       points on the out-of-distribution benchmarks, surpassing Codex on the former and matching it on
                                                       the latter. In the second stage, continued evolution on Claw-Eval, one of the out-of-distribution
                                                       benchmarks, further raises the score on that benchmark from 66.17 to 68.06, exceeding Codex. We
                                                       also provide an in-depth analysis of the mechanisms that emerged during evolution, including output
                                                       truncation, history compaction, and independent review.


                                         1         Introduction
                                         The performance of a language-model agent depends both on the model itself and on the control code around it. This
                                         code decides what information the model sees at each step, which tools it can call, what to keep when the conversation
                                         grows long, and when a task counts as finished; it is usually called the harness. Work such as ReAct, CodeAct, and
                                         SWE-agent shows that the design of action formats and tool interfaces substantially changes what an agent can do [1–3],
                                         and with the model held fixed, changing only the harness can also produce large performance differences [4, 5]. Most
                                         harnesses are still written by engineers, and developers of frontier models build dedicated harnesses such as Codex and
                                         Claude Code for their own models.
                                         Self-evolving harnesses aim to hand this engineering work to the agent. Recent work mostly follows the same basic
                                         framework: a solver works on the tasks of a benchmark with the current harness and leaves trajectories; a proposer
                                         reads these trajectories and modifies the solver’s harness; and the loop repeats. The proposer is usually driven by a
                                         strong model and runs on a fixed, human-designed harness. For example, the proposer of Meta-Harness is Claude Code
                                         driven by Claude Opus 4.6 [4], and HarnessBank uses Claude Opus 4.8 to improve the harness of Qwen3.6-27B [6].
                                         The outer loop often adds further human-designed steps, such as a dedicated agent that organizes trajectories [5, 7]. We
                                         revisit this framework from three angles: what an ideal and practical self-improvement framework for frontier models
                                         should look like (Section 1.1); how to make the improvements generalize to unseen tasks (Section 1.2); and whether the
                                         evolution process can be viewed as model training (Section 1.3).

                                         1.1        Self-Improvement Framework with Minimal Human Priors

                                         If the goal is to improve the harnesses used by frontier agents, this framework falls short of practical needs in four
                                         respects:
                                               1
                                                   Nanjing University. Correspondence to: Qiankai Xu <qiankaixu6@gmail.com>.
                         Self-Evolving Harness on Multiple Tasks with the Agent as Its Own Optimizer



        Task batches
                                                                                                               Next iteration
    1   Iterations 1–5                             Same model · same harness
    Mixed benchmarks
                                                      Frozen model M              Harness code Ct
                                                      Fixed weights               Runs the agent
                                                                                                               Edit budget at
  TB 2.1      GAIA2    OfficeQA


                                                                                                                 New-line cap

       τ³ banking SWE-Pro            Bt
    Fresh tasks each iteration
                                                            Trajectories + feedback Et
    2   Iterations 6–7                                        Scores · grader outputs

   New domain + replay
                                              Solver                                         Proposer         Updated state
              +                             Forward pass                                   Backward update     Ct + 1, Nt + 1
                                                                                                               Engineering check
 Claw-Eval Success anchors                                    Evolution notes Nt read               update
  New tasks       From Stage 1                                Optimizer state



Figure 1: Overview of the framework. The solver and the proposer are the same agent, run in separate sessions with the same frozen
model M and the same harness, which consists of the code Ct and the evolution notes Nt . In Iterations 1–5, each batch mixes
new tasks from five benchmarks; in Iterations 6–7, it combines new Claw-Eval tasks with success anchors from the first stage. The
solver runs the batch and produces the run records Et : trajectories, scores, and grader outputs. The proposer reads these records
and the notes, modifies the harness code within the budget of new lines at , and updates the notes. Once the new version passes the
engineering checks, its code Ct+1 and notes Nt+1 are used in the next iteration.



  • Models of the proposer and solver. Harness improvements often help weaker models more [4, 7, 8], so it is
    unsurprising that a strong model can build an effective harness for a weaker one. The more interesting question is
    whether a frontier model can improve its own harness beyond human-designed ones.
  • Harnesses of the proposer and solver. The proposer runs on a fixed, human-designed harness. However much the
    solver’s harness improves, the proposer keeps working the same way, so the gains never compound in the improver
    itself.
  • Scope of edits. Methods such as AHE, HarnessX, and Self-Harness fix in advance the components, edit types,
    or configuration points that may change [5, 7, 9], which leaves no room for mechanisms outside the predefined
    categories.
  • Human-designed outer pipelines. Trajectory-organizing agents and preset component structures mainly compen-
    sate for the weaknesses of current models and may become unnecessary as models improve [10, 11]. mini-SWE-
    agent, for instance, keeps only a bash tool and a linear conversation history1 .
To address these four issues, we adopt a setting close to recursive self-improvement (RSI) [12–14]: a frontier model
starts from a minimal initial harness and modifies the harness that runs it. The same agent plays two roles. As the
solver it solves tasks, and as the proposer it reads the complete run records of the previous batch and edits the harness
directly (Figure 1). Both roles use the same frozen model and the same version of the harness. The proposer itself runs
on the harness it is modifying, so an improvement to the solver is also an improvement to the proposer. The setting
follows two principles: first, minimize human-designed priors, so that the mechanisms in the harness emerge from
the model’s own experience; second, give the model maximal freedom to modify the harness, with no restriction on
what can be changed or how. Section 3.2 describes the concrete design.
This setting reflects our long-term vision. Once models are capable enough, harnesses will no longer need human
design: a model can start from scratch and keep iterating on incoming tasks, its own attempts, and the feedback it
receives, evolving a harness that fits both the model and its task stream while remaining general and capable. Our
experimental design follows from this vision.

   1
       https://github.com/SWE-agent/mini-swe-agent


                                                                 2
                    Self-Evolving Harness on Multiple Tasks with the Agent as Its Own Optimizer


1.2   Generalization of Harness Updates

A harness is ultimately used on tasks it has not seen, so the improvements found by evolution must generalize beyond the
training tasks. Prior studies find that evolution tends to memorize training tasks or overfit to a particular benchmark, and
that the gains shrink markedly, or even vanish, on new tasks or out-of-distribution benchmarks [15–19]. Rethinking the
Evaluation of Harness Evolution and HarnessDev both find smaller improvements once evaluation tasks are separated
from evolution tasks [20, 21]. To assess and improve the generalization of harness evolution, we take five measures:
  • Train/held-out separation. The tasks of each benchmark are split into disjoint training and held-out sets, and the
    effect of evolution is measured only on held-out tasks. Some prior work reports scores directly on the tasks used for
    evolution [4, 5].
  • Out-of-distribution evaluation. We also evaluate on five benchmarks never used in the first stage.
  • Multi-benchmark mixing. Most prior work evolves a separate harness for each benchmark (Table 2). In practice,
    an agent faces tasks from many domains and a harness cannot be tailored to each of them, so one harness has to
    work across many benchmarks. Each of our training batches therefore draws tasks from five benchmarks in different
    domains, and an edit has to work for all task types at once [22]. Evaluation likewise covers multiple benchmarks
    and uses the average score to measure overall performance.
  • Decaying edit budget. Early iterations allow larger changes to establish broadly useful mechanisms; later iterations
    tighten the budget, leaving less room to memorize individual tasks.
  • Generalization-oriented prompt. The prompt given to the proposer stresses that improvements must generalize to
    unseen tasks and that memorizing specific tasks is worthless.

1.3   Harness Evolution as Training

We formulate harness evolution as the optimization of a state external to the frozen model, and we train the harness
the way model parameters are trained (Figure 2). SkillOpt trains skill documents in this way [23]; we extend the
optimization target to the entire harness source code. The source code plays the role of the parameters, solving and
grading a batch of tasks play the roles of the forward pass and the supervision signal, and the proposer’s rewrite of
the source is a parameter update. Table 1 gives the full correspondence. Our experimental design broadly mirrors this
optimization process; we highlight three aspects:
  • Data mixture. Pretraining of large models mixes data from many sources to acquire broad foundational knowledge,
    and more diverse data tends to yield better generalization [24]. Likewise, every first-stage batch mixes five
    benchmarks, so that the harness first develops mechanisms that are useful across task types.
  • Learning-rate annealing. Training lowers the learning rate gradually: large early steps make fast progress, and
    small later steps keep updates stable [25]. The budget of new lines likewise tightens across iterations.
  • Continual training with replay. Continued training on a new domain tends to erode existing abilities [26], and a
    common remedy is to mix old data into the new data as replay [27, 28]. Our second stage switches to tasks from a
    new domain and mixes in old tasks solved in the first stage as replay.


In our experiments, the harness grows from 49 lines to 430 in the first stage and 524 in the second, gaining tool-output
truncation, history compaction, and independent review along the way, as well as a visual inspection budget in the
second stage. On the held-out tasks of the five benchmarks used for evolution, the evolved harness scores about 4.5
points higher on average than the seed harness and also exceeds Codex. On five out-of-distribution benchmarks never
used in evolution, its average score is about 12.6 points above the seed harness and on par with Codex.
Our main contributions are as follows:
 1. Self-evolving framework. A self-evolving harness framework with minimal human priors: the same model solves
    tasks on the same harness and modifies the harness that runs it. Both evolution and evaluation mix benchmarks
    from multiple domains, and generalization is measured on held-out tasks and out-of-distribution benchmarks.
 2. Training analogy. We map harness evolution onto deep-learning training (Table 1), use the budget of new lines as
    the learning rate, and organize the experiments into two stages, multi-task pretraining and continual training.
 3. Experiments and analysis. We compare the seed harness, the evolved harness, and Codex on ten benchmarks.
    Drawing on the code changes and trajectories, we analyze how each mechanism emerged and changed and how it
    affected task performance, and we discuss the costs of the framework.


                                                             3
                                       Self-Evolving Harness on Multiple Tasks with the Agent as Its Own Optimizer


                                  Multi-task pretraining                                                               Continual training
                                           Iterations 1–5                           Frozen M                                Iterations 6–7

                                                                                    Harness code
                                                                                                                            +
                                                                                                              New benchmark         Success anchors
                               12 each → 60 fresh tasks / iteration                 Ct →Ct + 1                    40 new tasks        20 rerun tasks



                                Seed
                                49 lines             0
                                                                            Same C5
                                                                         New objective
                                                            1




    Loss (schematic)
                                                                  2
                                                                        3   4 5
                                                                                               6
                                                                                                              7

                                                                      Iteration 5                                                  Iteration 7
                            Harness source space C                    430 lines                                                    524 lines


                          Budget as learning rate                                                    Update with notes
       Edit budget at                                                       Records Et     +       Notes Nt            Code edit    +        Revised Nt + 1


Figure 2: Harness evolution viewed as two-stage training (schematic). In the first stage (Iterations 1–5), each batch takes 12 new
tasks from each of five benchmarks, 60 tasks in total. In the second stage (Iterations 6–7), each batch combines 40 tasks from a new
benchmark with 20 success anchors from the first stage, rerun with the current harness. The shaded surfaces sketch the loss of the
two objectives over the space of harness code. After Iteration 5 the objective changes while the code stays at C5 (dashed line), and
Iterations 6 and 7 continue from there. Seed, Iteration 5, and Iteration 7, the three versions evaluated on held-out tasks, have 49, 430,
and 524 lines of Python. Bottom left: the budget of new lines at shrinks during the first stage, is raised again when the second stage
begins, and then shrinks again, like a learning-rate schedule. Bottom right: each update turns the run records Et and the notes Nt
into a code edit and revised notes Nt+1 . Surface shapes, step lengths, and bar heights are illustrative.

                                    Table 1: Correspondence between deep-learning training and harness evolution in this paper.

                       Deep learning                            Harness evolution
                       Learnable parameters θ                   All harness source code Ct that runs the agent
                       Training batch                           Task set Bt of one iteration
                       Forward pass                             The solver solves tasks with the current harness and produces trajectories
                       Loss and supervision signal              Task score r and grader output v
                       Backpropagation (gradient)               The proposer derives edit directions from the run records
                       Parameter update                         The proposer modifies the source code, yielding Ct+1
                       Learning rate                            Number of new lines at allowed per iteration
                       Learning-rate schedule                   The budget of new lines tightens across iterations
                       Optimizer state (momentum)               Evolution notes Nt kept across iterations
                       Multi-task pretraining                   Iterations 1–5: mixed tasks from five benchmarks
                       Continual training                       Iterations 6–7: tasks from a new domain
                       Replay of old data                       Success anchors: old tasks solved in the first stage



2                      Related Work

Self-improving agents and harness evolution. For language models, Gödel Agent lets an agent modify its own logic
at run time, and DGM and SICA let coding agents rewrite their own code bases [29–31]. Since 2026 the focus has
shifted to harnesses [4, 5, 7], and later work has introduced designs such as candidate banks, population merging, and
module-wise evolution [6, 16, 32]. Table 2 compares representative methods.

Harness gains and model capability. The gains from harness improvements depend on model capability. On
Terminal-Bench 2.0, Meta-Harness improves Claude Haiku 4.5 more than Claude Opus 4.6 [4], and HarnessX likewise
observes that the weakest task model benefits most [7]. Harness Updating Is Not Harness Benefit finds that the strongest


                                                                                       4
                     Self-Evolving Harness on Multiple Tasks with the Agent as Its Own Optimizer



Table 2: Comparison of recent self-evolving harness work with ours. Same model: the proposer that modifies the harness and the
solver that solves tasks use the same base model. Same harness: the proposer itself runs on the harness being evolved. Evolution
tasks: the tasks from which one harness receives feedback during evolution; single benchmark means one benchmark, and same-type
benchmarks means several benchmarks or datasets of the same task type. Many methods are evaluated on several benchmarks but
evolve a separate harness for each, which still counts as a single benchmark. Acceptance: how a modified version is admitted to the
next round.
                    Same       Same                             Editable                Evolution
Method              model     harness         Start              scope                    tasks                   Acceptance
SICA                  ✓         ✓        Hand-designed          All code         Same-type benchmarks        Score-based selection
DGM                   ✗         ✓          Minimal              All code           Single benchmark          Score-based selection
Meta-Harness          ✗         ✗        Hand-designed          All code         Same-type benchmarks        Score-based selection
AHE                   ✓         ✗          Minimal         Preset components       Single benchmark          Effect-based rollback
Self-Harness          ✓         ✓†         Minimal         Preset components       Single benchmark            Regression tests
HarnessX              ✗         ✗        Hand-designed     Preset components       Single benchmark            Regression tests
HarnessBank           ✗         ✗        Hand-designed     Preset components       Single benchmark            Significance test
HarnessCompass        ✓         ✗          Minimal         Preset components       Single benchmark          Score-based selection
EvolveNet             ✓         ✗          Minimal              All code           Single benchmark              Edit merging
HarnessDev            ✗         ✗          Minimal              All code         Same-type benchmarks         Chosen by proposer
ModularRSI            ✓         ✓        Hand-designed     Preset components     Same-type benchmarks        Run check and review
RRSI                  ✓         ✗        Hand-designed     Preset components       Single benchmark          Score-based selection
Ours                  ✓          ✓          Minimal             All code            Mixed task types        Runnability check only
†
 The Self-Harness paper states that its proposer is invoked by the same model under the current harness, so we mark it with ✓.
According to the paper and its public code repository (https://github.com/qzzqzzb/Self-Harness), the proposer receives a
piece of text and outputs a structured edit plan, which a separate program parses and applies to the harness; our proposer runs as a
coding agent on the same harness as the solver and edits files directly.


tier of models gains less from updates than mid-tier models [8]. OEO finds that a sufficiently strong optimizer model
performs better when it organizes the optimization process itself than when it follows a prescribed pipeline [10].

Evolution tasks and evaluation. SICA, Meta-Harness, and HarnessDev let one harness receive feedback from
multiple benchmarks or datasets, all of the same task type [4, 21, 31]. SEAGym and Evo-Bench find that both the
diversity of experience sources and the task domain affect the outcome of evolution [33, 34]. Simple Baselines and
Rethinking the Evaluation of Harness Evolution stress that evolution methods should be compared with simple methods
under the same budget [20, 35].

Optimization-style evolution. TextGrad and GEPA update prompts with textual feedback and trajectory reflection,
respectively [36, 37]. SkillOpt uses bounded edits and a textual learning-rate budget when training skill documents,
which directly inspired our training analogy [23]; the concurrent RRSI also anneals the number of edits a candidate
may contain across iterations [15]. Adaptive Auto-Harness and Continual Harness study continual evolution, targeting
streams of heterogeneous incoming tasks and embodied tasks without environment resets, respectively [38, 39].

3     Method
3.1    Problem Setup

Let M denote the frozen base model. At the end of iteration t, the harness state is Ht = (Ct , Nt ), where Ct is the
entire source code that runs the agent, including the system prompt, tool definitions and implementations, context
handling, and execution control, and Nt denotes the evolution notes stored alongside the code (Section 3.5). H0 is the
seed harness.
The harness runs on a fixed execution interface K, which calls the model, executes commands, and records the entire
run. Given a task x, one run of the agent is
                                                  τ = AK (M, Ht , x),                                               (1)
where τ contains the model replies, tool calls, command outputs, and final artifacts. The grader of benchmark k returns
                                                       (r, v) = Vk (x, τ ),                                                     (2)


                                                                 5
                    Self-Evolving Harness on Multiple Tasks with the Agent as Its Own Optimizer


where r is the task score and v is the test log or grading explanation.

3.2   Solver, Proposer, and Seed Harness

Following the two principles of Section 1.1, minimizing human-designed priors and giving the model maximal freedom
to modify the harness, the framework makes three design choices.
The solver receives benchmark tasks and solves them, and the proposer receives an update task It that asks it to
improve the harness. Both roles are played by the same agent with the same M and the same Ht , and each runs in a
fresh session.
The outer program only dispatches tasks and packages run records; there is no step that organizes trajectories or
summarizes errors. The update task provides three kinds of material: the source code and evolution notes of the current
harness; the complete run records of the previous batch, including trajectories, task scores, and grader outputs, with
both successful and failed tasks provided as is, without summarization or selection; and, from the second iteration of
each stage on, the run record of the previous update session. The update prompt is short (Appendix B gives the full text).
It tells the proposer that the modified harness will be evaluated on unseen tasks and on entirely different benchmarks,
so it should look for improvements that generalize; that it may add or delete files and introduce any component; and
that the notes travel with the harness to the next round. It also states the input limit per request and the budget of new
lines for the current iteration. Beyond this, the prompt does not prescribe which records to read first, how to identify
problems, where to start, or which part to change.
The seed H0 is a single 49-line Python file (Appendix A) containing a system prompt of a few sentences, a bash tool,
and a minimal loop: call the model, execute the tool calls in its reply and append the results to the history, and stop once
the model replies without tool calls. The seed has no output truncation, command timeouts, context compaction, or
error recovery; whether these are needed, and how to implement them, is left to evolution. The framework also neither
partitions the harness into components nor restricts the scope of edits: apart from the execution interface K, any part of
any file in the harness can be modified, and files can be created or deleted.

3.3   One Iteration: Rollout, Update, and Check

Iteration t + 1 starts from Ht and consists of three steps: rollout, update, and check (Figure 1 and Algorithm 1). In the
rollout, the solver runs the task batch Bt of the iteration with Ht , once per task, producing the records
                                             Et = {(x, τx , rx , vx ) : x ∈ Bt }.                                       (3)
In the update, the outer program packages Et together with the other materials described in Section 3.2 into the update
task It and passes it to the same agent:

                                           H
                                           e t+1 = Extract(AK (M, Ht , It )) ,                                          (4)
where Extract retrieves the modified code and notes at the end of the session. In the check, the new version must pass
a few engineering checks Gt : the edits touch only the harness itself, there is at least one change besides the notes, the
number of new lines does not exceed at , and the harness completes a full task run with a mock model:
                                                (
                                                  He t+1 , Gt (He t+1 , Ht ) = 1,
                                        Ht+1 =                                                                         (5)
                                                  Ht ,     otherwise.

If the check fails, the outer program starts a repair session.

3.4   Two Stages: Multi-Task Pretraining and Continual Training

Stage 1: multi-task evolution (Iterations 1–5). There are K = 5 benchmarks, each split in advance into a training set
Dktr and a disjoint held-out set Dkho . Each iteration takes b = 12 previously unused tasks from each training set to form
a batch of 60 tasks:
                          K
                          [
                   Bt =         Bt,k ,   Bt,k ⊂ Dktr ,      |Bt,k | = b,      Bt,k ∩ Bu,k = ∅ (t ̸= u).                 (6)
                          k=1

Together, the five iterations use each of the 60 training tasks of every benchmark exactly once, and the held-out sets are
never run during evolution.


                                                              6
                    Self-Evolving Harness on Multiple Tasks with the Agent as Its Own Optimizer


Algorithm 1 The harness self-evolution loop shared by both stages
Input: frozen model M and execution interface K, seed H0 , task batches {Bt }6t=0 and budgets {at }6t=0 of the iterations
Output: harness states H1 , . . . , H7 and all run records
 1: for t = 0, . . . , 6 do
 2:     Et ← ∅
 3:     for x ∈ Bt do                                                                             ▷ solver, parallelizable
 4:          τx ← AK (M, Ht , x)
 5:          (rx , vx ) ← Vk(x) (x, τx )
 6:          Et ← Et ∪ {(x, τx , rx , vx )}
 7:     end for
 8:     build the update task It from Et , the record of the previous update session, Ht , and at
 9:     He t+1 ← Extract(AK (M, Ht , It ))                                                                     ▷ proposer
10:     check with Eq. (5) to obtain Ht+1
11: end for
12: freeze H5 and H7 and evaluate them on the corresponding held-out tasks


Stage 2: continued evolution on a new domain (Iterations 6–7). Starting from Iteration 5, the training tasks switch to
tasks Btnew from a new domain, mixed with a small number of old tasks At :
                                            Bt = Btnew ∪ At ,        t ∈ {5, 6}.                                          (7)
The two iterations use different new tasks. At is drawn from the training tasks solved in the first stage, spread evenly
across the five benchmarks; we call these tasks success anchors. They are rerun with the current harness, and their
results are given to the proposer together with the records of the new tasks, so that while adapting the harness to the
new domain the proposer also sees how its edits affect the original tasks.

3.5   Optimizer State and Learning-Rate Schedule

Table 1 lists the full correspondence; here we give the implementation details of the optimizer state and the learning-rate
schedule.

Evolution notes as optimizer state. The first moment in Adam accumulates past gradients with exponential weighting,
so that each update reflects both the current gradient and the direction of earlier updates [40, 41]. The evolution notes
play a similar role: in each iteration, the proposer first reads the existing notes and then, in light of the new batch of run
records, writes down which edits worked as expected, which earlier judgments need correction, and what to try next.
Unlike numerical momentum, the notes are free text that can be rewritten entirely, and the proposer can also overturn
earlier conclusions; Section 5 gives concrete examples.

Edit budget as learning rate. The budget at of each iteration limits the number of lines added between two versions
                                 et+1 ) ≤ at ; deleted lines and edits to the notes do not count toward the budget. The
of the source code, i.e., A(Ct , C
first-stage budget follows a cosine learning-rate schedule [25] and decreases from amax = 500 to amin = 100:
                                                                         
                                        amax − amin                 πt
                 at = round amin +                       1 + cos              ,     t = 0, . . . , Tpre − 1,         (8)
                                              2                  Tpre − 1
where Tpre = 5, giving budgets of 500, 441, 300, 159, and 100 lines for the five iterations. When the second stage
enters the new domain, the budget is raised back to 200 lines and then lowered to 100 lines, mirroring the practice in
continual pretraining of first re-warming and then decaying the learning rate [28].

4     Experiments
4.1   Experimental Setup

Benchmarks. The first stage uses five benchmarks that differ in interaction style, task length, and grading (Table 3).
Terminal-Bench 2.1 consists of long-horizon engineering tasks, such as software builds and system configuration,
carried out in a terminal [42]. GAIA2 involves handling asynchronous requests in a simulated mobile-app environment
that pushes new messages over time [43]. OfficeQA Pro requires retrieving evidence from nearly a century of U.S.
Treasury bulletins and performing numerical reasoning [44]. τ 3 -Bench banking involves multi-turn conversations with


                                                              7
                      Self-Evolving Harness on Multiple Tasks with the Agent as Its Own Optimizer


a simulated user to handle banking requests under business rules [45]. SWE-Bench Pro asks the agent to fix real issues
in large code repositories [46].
To test the generalization of the evolved harness, we also select five out-of-distribution (OOD) benchmarks never used
in the first stage: SWE-bench Verified, issue resolution in Python repositories [47, 48]; DeepSWE, feature development
in repositories written in multiple programming languages [49]; BrowseComp-Plus, question answering by retrieval
over a fixed corpus of about 100,000 web pages [50], which is placed in the task environment as files; APEX-Agents,
professional work in investment banking, consulting, and law [51]; and Claw-Eval, which mixes service orchestration,
multimodal understanding, and multi-turn dialogue [52]. Time limits and grading follow the official settings of each
benchmark.

Table 3: Benchmarks and task counts. Benchmarks with few held-out tasks are evaluated repeatedly and averaged: each of the 29
Terminal-Bench 2.1 tasks is run three times, written as 29×3; for OfficeQA Pro and τ 3 -Bench banking we take two complete runs,
written as 73×2 and 37×2. The out-of-distribution benchmarks have no first-stage training tasks, and the Claw-Eval training tasks
are used only in the second stage.
Benchmark                 Task type                                                                  Total    Train    Held-out
In-distribution benchmarks
Terminal-Bench 2.1     Long-horizon engineering tasks in a terminal                                     89       60        29×3
GAIA2                  Asynchronous interaction in dynamic app environments                            800       60          100
OfficeQA Pro           Treasury document retrieval and numerical reasoning                             133       60        73×2
τ 3 -Bench banking     Multi-turn service dialogue with a simulated user                                97       60        37×2
SWE-Bench Pro          Issue resolution in code repositories                                           731       60          100
Out-of-distribution benchmarks
SWE-bench Verified Issue resolution in Python repositories                                             500        –         100
DeepSWE                 Feature development in multi-language repositories                             113        –          53
BrowseComp-Plus         Deep-research question answering over a fixed corpus                           830        –         100
APEX-Agents             Professional work in banking, consulting, and law                              480        –         100
Claw-Eval               Service orchestration, multimodal understanding, and multi-turn dialogue       300       80         100


Model and baselines. All experiments use GPT-5.6 Sol with high reasoning effort, an input limit of 258,400 tokens,
and an output limit of 65,536 tokens per request; the solver and the proposer have identical configurations. We compare
three harnesses: the seed harness (Seed), Iteration 5 at the end of the first stage, and the off-the-shelf coding agent
Codex2 (Codex CLI 0.146.0), which uses the same model and keeps its own tools and context-compaction mechanism.
Iteration 7 is compared with Iteration 5 only on the new domain of the second stage.

Preventing reward hacking. To prevent reward hacking, such as bypassing the task to obtain answers directly or
exploiting loopholes in grading [53, 54], we apply two safeguards in all evaluations, a preventive constraint and a
post-hoc audit, identically for all three harnesses. Beforehand, every task description ends with a fixed requirement that
forbids the agent from obtaining answers from published solutions, upstream patches, or evaluation files, and reference
answers and grading tests are placed in the environment only after the agent has finished. Afterward, we audit all
evaluation trajectories. A script first scans the commands and outputs of every trajectory and flags suspicious behavior
such as downloading upstream fixes, searching for published answers or dataset copies, reading grading materials, or
modifying test files; for SWE-Bench Pro, it also compares the content returned from the network with the reference
patch, record by record. Independent agents then check the flagged records one by one and decide whether the answers
came from these sources. We also inspect the trajectories of records with unusually high or low scores. A record
confirmed as cheating scores 0 and is not rerun. No cheating was confirmed in any evaluation record reported in this
paper.

4.2        Main Results

In-distribution results. Figure 3(a) shows the scores of the three harnesses on the held-out tasks of the five in-
distribution benchmarks. Iteration 5 averages 60.17 across the five benchmarks, 4.48 points above Seed and 2.99 above
Codex. The gains are concentrated on Terminal-Bench 2.1 and SWE-Bench Pro, which rise from 66.67 and 51.00 to
83.91 and 61.00, clearly above Codex as well. Both benchmarks consist mainly of executing commands and editing
files, and their tasks often take dozens of tool calls; the output truncation, command time limits, history compaction,
      2
          https://github.com/openai/codex


                                                               8
                              Self-Evolving Harness on Multiple Tasks with the Agent as Its Own Optimizer


 (a) In-distribution benchmarks                                                                                           Seed   Iteration 5          Codex

             90
                           83.9

             80
                                  71.3

    Score
             70     66.7                                       66.4
                                                                      63.0 63.7
                                                                                                                   61.0                        60.2
             60                                                                                                           56.0          55.7          57.2
                                                                                         51.4               51.0
                                                       49.0
             50                                 47.0                                            45.9 45.9
                                         43.0
             40
                  Terminal-Bench 2.1        GAIA2               OfficeQA Pro            τ³-Bench banking SWE-Bench Pro                    Average


 (b) Out-of-distribution benchmarks

            100
                                                                             93.0
                                                                      90.0
             90

             80     78.0 78.0 80.0
                                                                                                                                               70.5 70.6

  Score
             70                                 67.9
                                                                                                            65.2 66.2 66.2
                                         62.3          62.3
             60                                                                                                                         57.8
                                                                                         49.6 50.2 51.4
             50

             40                                                34.0
             30
                  SWE-bench Verified      DeepSWE             BrowseComp-Plus            APEX-Agents         Claw-Eval                    Average


Figure 3: Held-out scores of the three harnesses with GPT-5.6 Sol (high). (a) The five in-distribution benchmarks; (b) the five
out-of-distribution benchmarks. Scores on APEX-Agents and Claw-Eval are the mean official score multiplied by 100; on the other
benchmarks they are success rates (%). Averages weight the five benchmarks equally.


and independent review added during evolution target exactly such long-horizon tasks (Section 5). GAIA2 improves
slightly, and Seed scores highest on OfficeQA Pro and τ 3 -Bench banking.

Out-of-distribution results. Figure 3(b) shows the results on the five out-of-distribution benchmarks. Iteration 5
averages 70.45, 12.64 points above Seed and within one point of Codex (70.57). The largest change is on BrowseComp-
Plus, where Iteration 5 rises from Seed’s 34.00 to 90.00, compared with 93.00 for Codex, mainly owing to output
truncation (Section 5.2). Iteration 5 scores highest on DeepSWE, and the three harnesses are close on SWE-bench
Verified, APEX-Agents, and Claw-Eval. Even excluding BrowseComp-Plus, the average of Iteration 5 over the other
four benchmarks (65.56) exceeds those of Seed (63.76) and Codex (64.97). These benchmarks differ considerably from
the tasks used in evolution, yet the mechanisms developed during evolution remain effective on them.

Where Codex trails the seed. On OfficeQA Pro and τ 3 -Bench banking, Codex scores below Seed. A task-by-task
comparison of the trajectories of the three harnesses shows that neither gap is related to harness mechanisms: on
OfficeQA Pro, the questions answered incorrectly are themselves ambiguous; on τ 3 -Bench banking, the failures of
Codex are spread over different tasks and stem from business-judgment and calculation errors on individual tasks.
Section 5.6 explains why Iteration 5 falls below Seed on these two benchmarks.

4.3         Continual Training on Claw-Eval

The second stage starts from Iteration 5 and runs two consecutive iterations on Claw-Eval, yielding Iteration 7. Each
iteration mixes 40 Claw-Eval training tasks, different for the two iterations, with 20 success anchors from the five
first-stage benchmarks.
Figure 4 compares Iteration 5 with Iteration 7, with Seed and Codex as references. Iteration 7 raises the overall score
from 66.17 to 68.06 and the number of passed tasks from 52 to 57, both the highest among the four harnesses. The gain


                                                                                    9
                         Self-Evolving Harness on Multiple Tasks with the Agent as Its Own Optimizer



                                                   Seed     Iteration 5                Iteration 7        Codex

    (a) Overall score                                           (b) Passed tasks by category

            70                                                                  60                                                            57
                                        68.1                                                                                          53 52        53
                                                                                50
                            66.2                     66.2                             44 45 45
                                                                                                 42




                                                                 Passed tasks
                  65.2
            65                                                                  40

    Score                                                                       30

            60                                                                  20
                                                                                                                              11 11
                                                                                10                                    5
                                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                          0   1   0
            55                                                                  0
                 Seed    Iteration 5 Iteration 7    Codex                              General        Multi-turn      Multimodal         All
                                                                                        (54)            (12)             (34)           (100)



Figure 4: Results on the Claw-Eval held-out tasks; the four harnesses use the same 100 tasks and the same model. (a) Mean official
score over the 100 tasks, multiplied by 100. (b) Number of tasks with a score of at least 0.75 in each category; parentheses give the
number of tasks in the category.


comes mainly from multimodal tasks, whose average score rises from 39.3 to 47.8, consistent with the visual inspection
budget added in these two iterations (Section 5.5).

5       Analysis
5.1         How the Harness Evolved

Table 4 lists the code changes over the seven iterations. The edits fall into five broad groups of components: the tool
layer that executes commands (output truncation, command time limits, image viewing), context management (history
compaction and a progress file), end-of-task checks (from a completion check to independent review in a fresh context),
the interaction protocol (deciding when a conversation ends), and task-specific rules (e.g., set operations, deadlines, and
stopping conditions for search). The second stage added a visual inspection budget and delivery deadlines.

    Table 4: Total Python lines of the harness at each iteration (including blank lines and comments) and the main code changes.
State            Lines    Main changes
Seed                49    System prompt, bash tool, and a basic tool-calling loop
Iteration 1        279    Output truncation; command time limits; history compaction; image viewing
Iteration 2        343    Completion check before finishing; image size cap
Iteration 3        394    Independent review in a fresh context
Iteration 4        414    End-of-conversation detection by word matching; image format validation
Iteration 5        430    Task-specific rules (set operations, deadlines); review prioritizes unchecked requirements
Iteration 6        486    Visual inspection budget; time cap on independent review
Iteration 7        524    Delivery deadlines for visual tasks

The first iteration made the largest changes. The notes of Iteration 1 record several problems exposed by the seed: one
command printed about 16 MB of logs and pushed the next request over the context limit; some tasks spent their time
budget on a hung command; and in image tasks the agent, unable to view images, resorted to parsing pixels one by one.
Based on these observations, the proposer added output truncation, command time limits, history compaction, and an
image-viewing tool in a single update.
Later iterations mostly revised mechanisms added in earlier rounds. End-of-conversation detection first matched tool
names with a regular expression (Iteration 3), switched to word-level matching after the end inside send was found
to trigger it falsely (Iteration 4), and was later extended to read tool descriptions (Iteration 7). The image tool first
gained a size cap (Iteration 2), then format validation by byte signature (Iteration 4), and then limits on the number


                                                                                 10
                    Self-Evolving Harness on Multiple Tasks with the Agent as Its Own Optimizer


of images attached per reply and per task (Iteration 6). The notes also assess the previous round’s edits and correct
earlier judgments. For example, the notes of Iteration 4 state that “the previous note’s claim that the image ceiling fully
prevented visual-request crashes was too broad.”
The next four subsections analyze four mechanisms that affect multiple benchmarks: output truncation, history
compaction, independent review, and the visual inspection budget added in the second stage. Appendix C gives the
trigger rates of the first three on the ten benchmarks. Section 5.6 analyzes the benchmarks on which Iteration 5 falls
below Seed, and Section 5.7 discusses the costs of the two design principles.

5.2   Output Truncation

Output truncation was added in Iteration 1, and later iterations never changed its thresholds. When the output of a
single command exceeds 48,000 characters, the harness keeps only its beginning and end and replaces the middle with a
one-line note that suggests a more precise command or writing the output to a file; command outputs older than the six
most recent ones are further cut to at most 6,000 characters. The seed puts command outputs into the context verbatim,
so a single overlong output pushes the next request over the input limit and the task aborts.
Such aborts occurred with the seed on nine of the ten benchmarks and never with Iteration 5. BrowseComp-Plus was
affected most: its corpus is large, a broad rg search can print tens of millions of characters, and the seed aborted on 65
tasks for this reason. Receiving truncated output, Iteration 5 narrows its searches and reads candidate files one at a time,
and it answers 57 of these 65 tasks correctly. On SWE-Bench Pro, the seed aborted on 12 tasks because of long test
or build output, and Iteration 5 solves 7 of them. Truncation was added based on training records from terminal and
software-engineering tasks, yet its largest gain comes on a retrieval benchmark never seen during evolution.

5.3   History Compaction

History compaction was also added in Iteration 1 and has likewise remained unchanged. When the total length of the
messages exceeds 360,000 characters, the harness keeps only the first two messages and about 170,000 characters of
the most recent messages, and it prompts the model to re-check the files and the progress file and not to assume that
the deleted commands all succeeded. With output truncation in place, the context of coding tasks rarely grows to this
threshold; compaction occurs mainly in long tasks that search or view images repeatedly (Appendix C).
On BrowseComp-Plus, the seed aborted from context overflow on three questions that Iteration 5 answered correctly
after compaction; q0285 is one of them. On this question, after three model calls by the seed, one search command
printed about 3.19 million characters, and the fourth request exceeded the input limit. Iteration 5 made 64 model calls
on the same question and compacted its history three times along the way. After each compaction, it first checked the
progress file and the answer file, then resumed searching and verifying, and eventually answered correctly.

5.4   Independent Review

Review was introduced in Iteration 2 and revised three times afterwards. Iteration 2 appends a completion-check
request the first time the model replies without calling a tool. The notes of Iteration 3 argue that when the same
session re-checks its own result with the whole implementation trajectory in context, the second pass tends to repeat the
reasoning of the first. For tasks that need no interaction, the harness therefore clears the conversation, keeps only the
original task and the file system, and lets the model review the result independently in a fresh context; interactive tasks
keep their history to avoid repeating actions already taken. Iteration 5 requires the review to read the progress file first
and to prioritize requirements not yet checked. In the second stage, Iteration 6 further caps the review at 150 seconds or
8 calls. Iteration 5 enters review on nearly every non-interactive task (Appendix C).
During review, the model can gather evidence and recompute, and it revises the answer when it finds a problem. In one
run of OfficeQA Pro task uid0029, Iteration 5 first took 1960 as the first year of a table and computed 0.77667; during
review it realigned the year column, counted from 1959, obtained 0.88525, and passed grading.

5.5   Visual Inspection Budget

The visual inspection budget was added on Claw-Eval in the second stage. Multimodal tasks require viewing images
or video frames repeatedly, yet an answer or a media file must be delivered within 600 seconds; Iteration 5 failed to
deliver before the deadline on 22 of the 34 multimodal held-out tasks. Iteration 6 limits the number of images viewed:
at most 4 per reply and 24 per task, and images already used are not sent again. The notes of Iteration 7 observe that
after the image quota ran out, the model kept making revisions through the command line, so Iteration 7 added delivery
deadlines. Once at least 12 images have been viewed, the model is told at 360 seconds to stop collecting evidence and


                                                            11
                   Self-Evolving Harness on Multiple Tasks with the Agent as Its Own Optimizer


start building the deliverable, and at 500 seconds the tools are withdrawn and the current result must be submitted; after
the image quota is used up, at most 8 more model calls are allowed. Iteration 7 no longer timed out on these 34 tasks,
and the scores of multimodal tasks rose accordingly (Section 4.3).
On the video speed-change task M097, Iteration 5 requested images 41 times, timed out at 600 seconds, and scored 0.2.
Iteration 7 made 24 requests, received the notice that the image quota was used up at about 304 seconds, then generated
and checked the speed-changed video and the time-interval file, and scored 1.0.

5.6   Regressions Relative to the Seed

Iteration 5 scores below Seed on τ 3 -Bench banking and OfficeQA Pro. On τ 3 -Bench banking it passes four fewer
runs than Seed, and the gap comes from two mechanisms. The first is history compaction (Section 5.3). In multi-turn
dialogue the customer’s request exists only in the conversation history, and all 11 runs in which Iteration 5 triggered
compaction deleted the customer’s original request at the first compaction; only one of them passed. The second is the
interface to task tools. From Iteration 1 on, the harness exposes all tools provided by the environment directly to the
model, including configure_run, which sets run parameters. In four runs, Iteration 5 used it to lower the conversation
step limit from 200, and two of these runs were cut off before the conversation finished. Neither Seed nor Codex ever
called this tool.
The gap on OfficeQA Pro is unrelated to harness mechanisms. The questions answered incorrectly are themselves
ambiguous, for example leaving open whether to compute by fiscal or calendar year or how to take the numerator and
denominator of a ratio, and all three harnesses gave the same wrong answers on these questions.

5.7   Costs of Simplicity and Freedom

Our framework is deliberately simple: the outer loop has no analysis or validation step, and the scope of edits is
unrestricted. This design comes with three costs, some of which should diminish as models become more capable.

Local fixes with side effects. Each round, the proposer reads only one batch of run records and focuses its edits on the
most common failures in that batch, so side effects on other tasks may be noticed only after they recur in later batches.
Both regressions in Section 5.6 come from mechanisms added for other tasks. Mixing task types makes such conflicts
more likely: an edit has to serve all tasks at once, while the proposer can attend to only some of them each time.

Acceptance without validation. A new version is accepted as long as it runs; the framework has no validation set and
does not compare the scores of the old and new versions, so whether an edit helps rests almost entirely on the model’s
own judgment. This is where harness evolution differs most from deep-learning training. A sufficiently small step
along the negative gradient is guaranteed to lower the loss on the current batch, whereas here the update direction is
decided by the model, may be wrong, and is not checked by any gate. The weaker the model, the greater this risk [8, 10].
Validating each update at an acceptable cost is a missing piece of the framework.

Freedom without diversity. Although the scope of edits is unrestricted, the actual edits narrow to a few mechanisms,
and components mentioned in the update prompt, such as skills, memory, and sub-agents, never appeared. Rethinking
the Evaluation of Harness Evolution also finds that evolution edits usually land on the system prompt first and then move
to middleware and the tool layer [20]. Methods that partition components in advance at least make each component type
an explicit target of modification [5]; once the scope is opened up, the variety of edits may even shrink. One possible
remedy is to keep multiple versions, as DGM does, so that evolution proceeds along several paths at once [30].

6     Discussion and Conclusion
Limitations. We report results for only one strong model; what kind of outer pipeline weaker models would need
remains to be studied experimentally (Section 5.7). Evolution is itself stochastic: rerunning the same setup may
produce different mechanisms, and estimating this variation would require multiple independent evolution chains. Some
benchmarks have few held-out tasks. We evaluate them repeatedly and average the results to reduce variance, but as the
analyses in Sections 4.2 and 5.6 show, the run-to-run randomness of the model still has a sizable effect on individual
benchmarks, and small differences should be interpreted with caution. The second stage uses only one new domain, and
whether the conclusions extend to other domains remains to be tested.

Conclusion. We propose a new self-evolving harness framework in which the same frontier model solves tasks on the
same harness and directly modifies the harness that runs it, with no human-designed analysis step in the outer loop


                                                           12
                     Self-Evolving Harness on Multiple Tasks with the Agent as Its Own Optimizer


and no restriction on the scope of edits. Evolution tasks mix benchmarks from multiple domains, and the process
is organized as the two stages of deep-learning training, multi-task pretraining and continual training. Experiments
show that the approach is effective. Starting from a 49-line seed, the evolved harness surpasses both the seed harness
and Codex in average score on the in-distribution benchmarks; on the out-of-distribution benchmarks never used in
evolution, it scores 12.64 points above the seed harness and on par with Codex; and continual training on a new domain
further improves the score in that domain. The analysis also identifies where the framework can improve: local edits
have side effects, updates lack validation, and edit directions tend to narrow. Validating each update at an acceptable cost
and letting evolution proceed along several paths at once are promising ways to further improve harness self-evolution.

References
 [1] Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. ReAct: Synergizing
     Reasoning and Acting in Language Models, 2022. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.03629.
 [2] Xingyao Wang, Yangyi Chen, Lifan Yuan, Yizhe Zhang, Yunzhu Li, Hao Peng, and Heng Ji. Executable Code Actions Elicit
     Better LLM Agents, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01030.
 [3] John Yang, Carlos E. Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kilian Lieret, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan, and Ofir Press. SWE-agent:
     Agent-Computer Interfaces Enable Automated Software Engineering, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.15793.
 [4] Yoonho Lee, Roshen Nair, Qizheng Zhang, Kangwook Lee, Omar Khattab, and Chelsea Finn. Meta-Harness: End-to-End
     Optimization of Model Harnesses, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2603.28052.
 [5] Jiahang Lin, Shichun Liu, Chengjun Pan, Lizhi Lin, Shihan Dou, Zhiheng Xi, et al. Agentic Harness Engineering: Observability-
     Driven Automatic Evolution of Coding-Agent Harnesses, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2604.25850.
 [6] Xiaotian Luo, Dizhan Xue, Fengxingyu Wang, Chuanrui Hu, and Yafeng Deng. HarnessBank: Semantic Gene-Bank Search
     with Gated Verification for Agent-Harness Self-Evolution, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2607.13683.
 [7] Tingyang Chen, Shuo Lu, Kang Zhao, Weicheng Meng, Hanlin Teng, Tianhao Li, et al. HarnessX: A Composable, Adaptive,
     and Evolvable Agent Harness Foundry, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2606.14249.
 [8] Minhua Lin, Juncheng Wu, Zijun Wang, Zhan Shi, Yisi Sang, Bing He, et al. Harness Updating Is Not Harness Benefit:
     Disentangling Evolution Capabilities in Self-Evolving LLM Agents, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2605.30621.
 [9] Hangfan Zhang, Shao Zhang, Kangcong Li, Chen Zhang, Yang Chen, Yiqun Zhang, Lei Bai, and Shuyue Hu. Self-Harness:
     Harnesses That Improve Themselves, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2606.09498.
[10] Hui Xue and Fan Yang. Rethinking Self-Evolving Agents: Do We Still Need Prescribed Optimization Pipelines?, 2026. URL
     https://arxiv.org/abs/2608.09629.
[11] Richard S. Sutton. The Bitter Lesson. Essay, March 13, 2019. URL http://www.incompleteideas.net/IncIdeas/Bit
     terLesson.html. March 13, 2019.
[12] Irving John Good. Speculations Concerning the First Ultraintelligent Machine. In Advances in Computers, volume 6, pages
     31–88. Academic Press, 1965.
[13] Jürgen Schmidhuber. Gödel Machines: Self-Referential Universal Problem Solvers Making Provably Optimal Self-
     Improvements, 2003. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0309048.
[14] Eric Zelikman, Eliana Lorch, Lester Mackey, and Adam Tauman Kalai. Self-Taught Optimizer (STOP): Recursively Self-
     Improving Code Generation, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.02304. COLM 2024.
[15] Peng Xia, Rujun Han, Zifeng Wang, Yanfei Chen, Yufan Zhuang, Yoonho Lee, et al. RRSI: Regularized Recursive Self-
     Improvement of Agent Harnesses, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2609.24972.
[16] Siwei Wu, Jincheng Ren, Yizhi Li, Haau-Sing Li, Chengran Yang, Yuxuan Zhang, et al. ModularRSI: Modular and Generalizable
     Recursive Harness Self-Improvement, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2609.14857.
[17] Luan Zhang, Ruochen Zhou, Dandan Song, Zhengyu Chen, Yuhang Tian, Jun Yang, et al. HarnessCompass: Guiding Automatic
     Harness Evolution toward Generalizable and Effective Agent Harnesses, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2608.01918.
[18] Wen Jiang, Mingmin Chu, Yimeng Tian, Qianxin Zhang, Haofei Yang, Rui Yang, et al. HarnessEvolve: Learning from
     Reference Trajectories for Reliable Agent Self-Evolution, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2609.00829.
[19] Hao Zhou, Haichuan Hu, Tianyu Luo, Ye Shang, Chunrong Fang, Zhenyu Chen, et al. Self-Evolving Coding Agents, 2026.
     URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2608.03392.
[20] Yike Wang, Huaisheng Zhu, Zhengyu Hu, Yige Yuan, Zhengyu Chen, Shakti Senthil, et al. Rethinking the Evaluation of
     Harness Evolution for Agents, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2607.12227.
[21] Yuhao Wu, Jingyuan Zhang, Jiajun Shi, Xinping Lei, Qingshui Gu, Yuxuan Zhang, et al. HarnessDev: Can LLMs Create and
     Evolve Their Own Agent Harness?, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2609.01437.
[22] Rich Caruana. Multitask Learning. Machine Learning, 28(1):41–75, 1997. doi: 10.1023/A:1007379606734.
[23] Yifan Yang, Ziyang Gong, Weiquan Huang, Qihao Yang, Ziwei Zhou, Zisu Huang, et al. SkillOpt: Executive Strategy for
     Self-Evolving Agent Skills, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2605.23904.


                                                               13
                    Self-Evolving Harness on Multiple Tasks with the Agent as Its Own Optimizer


[24] Leo Gao, Stella Biderman, Sid Black, Laurence Golding, Travis Hoppe, Charles Foster, Jason Phang, Horace He, Anish Thite,
     Noa Nabeshima, Shawn Presser, and Connor Leahy. The Pile: An 800GB Dataset of Diverse Text for Language Modeling,
     2020. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.00027.
[25] Ilya Loshchilov and Frank Hutter. SGDR: Stochastic Gradient Descent with Warm Restarts. In International Conference on
     Learning Representations, 2017. doi: 10.48550/arXiv.1608.03983. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1608.03983.
[26] Michael McCloskey and Neal J. Cohen. Catastrophic Interference in Connectionist Networks: The Sequential Learning
     Problem. In Psychology of Learning and Motivation, volume 24, pages 109–165. Academic Press, 1989.
[27] David Rolnick, Arun Ahuja, Jonathan Schwarz, Timothy P. Lillicrap, and Greg Wayne. Experience Replay for Continual
     Learning. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2019. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.11682.
[28] Adam Ibrahim, Benjamin Thérien, Kshitij Gupta, Mats L. Richter, Quentin Anthony, Timothée Lesort, Eugene Belilovsky,
     and Irina Rish. Simple and Scalable Strategies to Continually Pre-train Large Language Models, 2024. URL https:
     //arxiv.org/abs/2403.08763.
[29] Xunjian Yin, Xinyi Wang, Liangming Pan, Li Lin, Xiaojun Wan, and William Yang Wang. Gödel Agent: A Self-Referential
     Agent Framework for Recursive Self-Improvement, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.04444. ACL 2025.
[30] Jenny Zhang, Shengran Hu, Cong Lu, Robert Lange, and Jeff Clune. Darwin Godel Machine: Open-Ended Evolution of
     Self-Improving Agents, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.22954.
[31] Maxime Robeyns, Martin Szummer, and Laurence Aitchison. A Self-Improving Coding Agent, 2025. URL https:
     //arxiv.org/abs/2504.15228.
[32] Yifan Zhang, Yutong Dai, Juntao Tan, Luyu Yang, Rishi Mullur, Thai Hoang, et al. DarwinX: Evolving Agent Harnesses
     Through Natural Selection, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2608.07545.
[33] Congjie Zheng, Chuanyi Xue, Bin Liang, Jun Yang, and Changshui Zhang. SEAGym: An Evaluation Environment for
     Self-Evolving LLM Agents, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2606.17546.
[34] Lisheng Huang, Chen Yang, Hao Zhou, Huatong Song, Zongchao Chen, Ran Le, et al. Evo-Bench: Can Language Models
     Improve Agent Harness?, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2608.09096.
[35] Yonatan Gideoni, Sebastian Risi, and Yarin Gal. Simple Baselines are Competitive with Code Evolution, 2026. URL
     https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.16805.
[36] Mert Yuksekgonul, Federico Bianchi, Joseph Boen, Sheng Liu, Zhi Huang, Carlos Guestrin, and James Zou. TextGrad:
     Automatic "Differentiation" via Text, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.07496.
[37] Lakshya A Agrawal, Shangyin Tan, Dilara Soylu, Noah Ziems, Rishi Khare, Krista Opsahl-Ong, et al. GEPA: Reflective
     Prompt Evolution Can Outperform Reinforcement Learning, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.19457.
[38] Zewen Liu, Zhan Shi, Yisi Sang, Bing He, Minhua Lin, Tianxin Wei, et al. Adaptive Auto-Harness: Sustained Self-Improvement
     for Agentic System Deployment on Open-Ended Task Streams, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2606.01770.
[39] Seth Karten, Joel Zhang, Tersoo Upaa, Jr., Ruirong Feng, Wenzhe Li, Chengshuai Shi, et al. Continual Harness: Online
     Adaptation for Self-Improving Foundation Agents, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2605.09998.
[40] Diederik P. Kingma and Jimmy Ba. Adam: A Method for Stochastic Optimization. In International Conference on Learning
     Representations, 2015. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6980.
[41] Ilya Loshchilov and Frank Hutter. Decoupled Weight Decay Regularization. In International Conference on Learning
     Representations, 2019. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1711.05101.
[42] Mike A. Merrill, Alexander G. Shaw, Nicholas Carlini, Boxuan Li, Harsh Raj, Ivan Bercovich, et al. Terminal-Bench:
     Benchmarking Agents on Hard, Realistic Tasks in Command Line Interfaces, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.1
     1868.
[43] Romain Froger, Pierre Andrews, Matteo Bettini, Amar Budhiraja, Ricardo Silveira Cabral, Virginie Do, et al. Gaia2:
     Benchmarking LLM Agents on Dynamic and Asynchronous Environments, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.1
     1964.
[44] Krista Opsahl-Ong, Arnav Singhvi, Jasmine Collins, Ivan Zhou, Cindy Wang, Ashutosh Baheti, et al. OfficeQA Pro: An
     Enterprise Benchmark for End-to-End Grounded Reasoning, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2603.08655.
[45] Quan Shi, Alexandra Zytek, Pedram Razavi, Karthik Narasimhan, and Victor Barres. τ -Knowledge: Evaluating Conversational
     Agents over Unstructured Knowledge, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2603.04370.
[46] Xiang Deng, Jeff Da, Edwin Pan, Yannis Yiming He, Charles Ide, Kanak Garg, et al. SWE-Bench Pro: Can AI Agents Solve
     Long-Horizon Software Engineering Tasks?, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.16941.
[47] Carlos E. Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik Narasimhan. SWE-bench:
     Can Language Models Resolve Real-World GitHub Issues? In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2024.
     URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06770.
[48] OpenAI. Introducing SWE-bench Verified. https://openai.com/index/introducing-swe-bench-verified/, 2024.


                                                              14
                     Self-Evolving Harness on Multiple Tasks with the Agent as Its Own Optimizer


[49] Datacurve AI. DeepSWE: Measuring Frontier Coding Agents on Original, Long-Horizon Engineering Tasks. https:
     //github.com/datacurve-ai/deep-swe, 2026. Version 1.1.
[50] Zijian Chen, Xueguang Ma, Shengyao Zhuang, Ping Nie, Kai Zou, Andrew Liu, et al. BrowseComp-Plus: A More Fair and
     Transparent Evaluation Benchmark of Deep-Research Agent, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.06600.
[51] Bertie Vidgen, Austin Mann, Abby Fennelly, John Wright Stanly, Lucas Rothman, Marco Burstein, et al. APEX-Agents, 2026.
     URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.14242.
[52] Bowen Ye, Rang Li, Qibin Yang, Yuanxin Liu, Linli Yao, Hanglong Lv, Zhihui Xie, Chenxin An, Lei Li, Lingpeng Kong,
     Qi Liu, Zhifang Sui, and Tong Yang. Claw-Eval: Towards Trustworthy Evaluation of Autonomous Agents, 2026. URL
     https://arxiv.org/abs/2604.06132.
[53] Sydney Von Arx, Lawrence Chan, and Beth Barnes. Recent Frontier Models Are Reward Hacking. METR blog, https:
     //metr.org/blog/2025-06-05-recent-reward-hacking/, 2025. June 5, 2025.
[54] Sayash Kapoor, Benedikt Stroebl, Peter Kirgis, Nitya Nadgir, Zachary S. Siegel, Boyi Wei, et al. Holistic Agent Leaderboard:
     The Missing Infrastructure for AI Agent Evaluation, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.11977.




                                                              15
                      Self-Evolving Harness on Multiple Tasks with the Agent as Its Own Optimizer


A      Seed Harness Code
The complete code of the seed harness (Section 3.2) is shown below.
                                      Listing 1: Complete code of the seed harness (49 lines).
 1   SYSTEM_PROMPT = (
 2       "You are an autonomous agent working inside a Linux container.\n"
 3       "Use the bash tool to inspect the environment and complete the task.\n"
 4       "Never cheat: do not obtain the answer by searching the internet or any "
 5       "similar shortcut; solve the task yourself.\n"
 6       "When the task is done, reply with a final message and no tool calls."
 7   )
 8
 9   TOOLS = [
10       {
11           "type": "function",
12           "function": {
13               "name": "bash",
14               "description": "Run a bash command in the task container and return its output.",
15               "parameters": {
16                   "type": "object",
17                   "properties": {
18                       "command": {"type": "string", "description": "The command to run."}
19                   },
20                   "required": ["command"],
21               },
22           },
23       }
24   ]
25
26
27   async def run(instruction, model, world):
28       messages = [
29           {"role": "system", "content": SYSTEM_PROMPT},
30           {"role": "user", "content": instruction},
31       ]
32       while True:
33           reply = await model.chat(messages, tools=TOOLS)
34           messages.append(reply.message)
35           if not reply.tool_calls:
36               return
37           for call in reply.tool_calls:
38               if call.name == "bash":
39                    r = await world.exec(str(call.arguments.get("command", "")))
40                    parts = [r.stdout]
41                    if r.stderr:
42                        parts.append("[stderr]\n" + r.stderr)
43                    parts.append(f"[exit {r.return_code}]")
44                    output = "\n".join(p for p in parts if p)
45               else:
46                    output = f"unknown tool: {call.name}"
47               messages.append(
48                    {"role": "tool", "tool_call_id": call.id, "content": output}
49               )




                                                                16
                     Self-Evolving Harness on Multiple Tasks with the Agent as Its Own Optimizer


B     Update Task Prompt
The update prompt that the proposer receives at each iteration is shown below. It is given as an ordinary task to the
agent running on the current harness, whose system prompt is the current harness’s own system prompt; in the first
iteration, this is the system prompt in Listing 1. The last paragraph is the fixed requirement appended to every task
description (Section 4.1). <a_t> is the budget of new lines for the iteration (Section 3.5); apart from it, the prompt is
identical in both stages.
                                           Listing 2: Full text of the update prompt.
    You are improving the agent harness that runs you. The goal is a harness that generalizes: it will be evaluated on tasks it
          has not seen, some from these same benchmarks and some from entirely different ones. Memorizing specific tasks or
         their solutions is therefore worthless, and so is hard-coding wordings or rules that restate a single trial, such as
         a fixed clarification question or a dictated report phrasing. Look for the general, high-level improvements the
         evidence points to; guidance should teach a method and leave the wording to the model.

    ‘/app/harness_workspace‘ hold the harness. ‘/app/harness_kernel‘ is the fixed kernel that loads the workspace; read it for
         context, but it is not editable in this task. ‘/app/eval_trials/‘ holds the trial records of this harness’s past runs.
          Edits count only under ‘/app/harness_workspace‘.

    You are free to reshape the harness however you see fit -- add, split, or delete files, and introduce whatever components
         you judge it needs: skills, tools, prompts, memory, subagents, context management, planning, or anything of your own
         design. Over many rounds this should grow into a complete, well-rounded harness that handles all kinds of tasks, so
         explore boldly rather than keep reworking one spot.

    This is one round of a loop. The harness you leave here is the one that runs the next batch of tasks and the one that runs
         this editing task again on those trials -- round after round.

    The workspace carries a permanent notebook, ‘harness_workspace/evolve_notes.md‘, that travels with the harness from round
         to round; bring it up to date before you finish. It can record whether earlier edits delivered what was expected, why
          or why not, and whether their gains generalized to this round’s tasks; your reading of the current evidence; what
         you changed and what you expect it to improve; which ideas have proven ineffective; and whatever else you judge worth
          recording. Feel free to rewrite or delete notes that have become outdated or disproven. Do not try to record the
         specifics of any one task in the notebook -- the same task will not appear again.

    Files written under ‘/logs/agent‘ in any task container, this editing one included, are collected into that trial’s ‘agent
         /‘ directory, and those trials are what the next editing round sees. That is how the model, now and during the coming
          tasks, chooses what to keep for future rounds: a trajectory in its own format, notes on what went wrong, whatever it
          judges worth keeping.

    The model API accepts at most 258,400 input tokens per request; over that, the request fails with ‘context_length_exceeded
         ‘.

    Acceptance checks run after you finish: changes must be confined to ‘harness_workspace/‘ and must not be empty aside from ‘
         evolve_notes.md‘, and ‘cd /app && python -m harness_kernel.smoke /app/harness_workspace‘ must print ‘SMOKE OK‘. This
         round you are allowed to add at most <a_t> new lines; edits to ‘evolve_notes.md‘ do not count, and neither do deleted
          lines. The smoke command counts and checks this for you. Leave your changes uncommitted.
    Never cheat: do not obtain the answer from any source that carries it rather than solving the task -- the upstream fix or
         its pull request, a published solution or test file, a dataset copy of the answer, or an oracle/evaluation artifact
         left in the environment. Reading ordinary documentation and library source is fine. Solve the task yourself.




                                                              17
                                 Self-Evolving Harness on Multiple Tasks with the Agent as Its Own Optimizer


C    Mechanism Trigger Rates
Figure 5 shows, for each benchmark, how often Seed aborted from context overflow and how often the three mechanisms
of Iteration 5 were triggered. Overflow in Seed concentrates on BrowseComp-Plus. Truncation is most common in
retrieval and document tasks, compaction is rare overall, and independent review runs on nearly every non-interactive
task. GAIA2 and τ 3 -Bench banking never trigger truncation or review: their tools return short outputs, and both are
handled as interactive tasks.

                                                               Seed                 Iteration 5

                                                              Context                          Independent
                                                              overflow   Truncation Compaction    review
                                                                                                             100
                                         Terminal-Bench 2.1     5.7         4.6        1.1        93.1




                   In-distribution
                                                     GAIA2       0           0          0           0
                                               OfficeQA Pro     1.4        19.2        0.7         100
                                                                                                             75
                                           τ³-Bench banking     6.8          0         14.9         0




                                                                                                                   Share of tasks (%)
                                            SWE-Bench Pro       12          11          1          100
                                                                                                             50




                   Out-of-distribution
                                         SWE-bench Verified      1           9          0          100
                                                 DeepSWE        3.8        13.2        5.7         100
                                          BrowseComp-Plus       65          77          9          97        25

                                              APEX-Agents        2          36          11         98
                                                 Claw-Eval       2           4          27         78
                                                                                                             0

Figure 5: Share of tasks (%) on each benchmark in which Seed aborted because of context overflow, and in which each of three
mechanisms of Iteration 5 was triggered, computed over all Seed and Iteration 5 evaluation records used in Figure 3. Truncation: the
model received a clipped tool output. Compaction: earlier turns of the conversation were removed. Independent review: at the end of
the task, the result was checked again in a fresh context.




                                                                           18
